Vivacious : This word is specially used for Women/girl(attractively lively(jindadil) and animated)
	Synonyms: lively,jaunty,jolly, full of fun.
	"She was very bubbly and vivaciuos women who had usually no difficulty meeting people."

disparage :insult, mortify
	"He never missed an opportunity to disparage his competitors."

Intrigue : Secret Plan, Saazish
	The cabinet was nest of intrigue.(the secret planning of something illicit or Detrimentol to someone).
	"I was intrigued by your question." Arouse curiosity or interest of; fascinate

Intrigues me : muzase saazish.

rejuvenate: make (someone or something) look or feel younger, fresher, or more lively.
There is a strong community effort to rejuvenate the river.

fudge: Thagana

Trickery : fraud, deceit
	 "The Dealer resorted to trickery."

assassinated : murder in surprise attack for political or religious reasons.

splendid : magneficient, very impressive, superb, spectacular, stunning.
	"A splendid view of windsor castle."
	"A slendid beauty of lake."

Mitigation: Action of reducing the severity
	"Mitigation Plan."

Envisaged: Presumed (Parikalpit)
	   "The Doll museum was envisaged by popular cartoonist,K Shankar pillai."

Hindrance : Obstacle, interrupt, barrier, Impediment
	a things that provide resistance, delay, or obstruction to something or someone.
	"a hindrance to the development process."

Chaotic : factious, disloyal , scattered, confused, unsettled, helter-skelter(asth vyasth)
	IN state of complete confusion and disorder.
	"A chaotic jumble of spools, tapes and books."
	
Boon : Vardan, a things that is helpfull or benificial
	"The navigation system will be boon to both civilian and military users"
	a favor or request
	"may i have inestimable boon of few minute conversation?"
	
Conciliation meeting : Sulah baithak

nagging: annoy or irritate person:
	The over protective and nagging Parents
	A nagging pain.
	"she constantly nags her daughter about getting married."
	
Pinnacle:peak,summit, hight pointed peace of rock.

Skeptical: having doubts
	"The public were deeply skeptical about some of praposals."
	
Jargon: (Shabd JAAL),slang,cant,doubletalk,doublespeak, Special word or expressions that are used by a particular profession or group and are difficult for understand.
		"Legal Jargon"

Seditious: riotous,rebellious(vidroh),causing people to rebel against the authority of state or monarch.
	"The letter was declared seditious."

Demeanour: behaviour,
		"a quiet somber demeanour."

Charismatic: Karishmai, Charming, fascinating, strong in charecters
	"A charismatic leader"
	
Decisive: Nirnayatmak , Conclusive, Settling an issue, producing a definate result.
	"The Supreme court voided the statute(Kanun) by a decisive 7-2 vote."

Blunder: A stupid or careless mistake

Among: "arouse enthusiasm among people. "
	"He was among the forst 29 student enrolled."

Heyday: The perod of person's or thing's greatest success, popularity or vigor.
	"The paper has lost millions of readers since its heyday in 1964"

Vigor: physical strength and good health, Energy

Appalled: greatly dismay or horrify.
	Chakit karna , Dhamkana, Bhaybhit karna... scare, frighten, intimidate, threaten, dismay, horrify
	"Bankers are appalled at the economic incompetence of some officials"
	
Revealed : Make known to others. Disclose
	"Brenda was force to reveal Robbies whereabout"
	
Finnesse: chalaki, deciet

Temerity: Utavalapan. excessive confidence or boldness; audacity
	"no one had the temerity to question his conclusions"
	
Poise: Santulan; Balance
	"He poise motionless on his toes"
	
Asylum: Sharan;
	"She applied for asylum and was granted refugee status"
	
Tedious: uninteresting, faint, dull, bored.
	to long, slow or dull; tiresome or monotonus
	"Its long, tedious interview and I am not going to go through it point by point"
	"After a long and tedious journey, I reached bled, the place where the conference was to be hold"

Tenacious: Drudhata. firm, strong, steadfast, determined,
	"He is remebered as tenaciuos and talented Developer/Manager"
	"The team has fabulous, tenaciuos defence"
	"He was one of the most tenacious individuals I'd ever come across"
	
Stringent: Harsh, stiff, rigid, tough, drastic.
	"DELHI air poluttion guidelines are Stringent"
	stringent penalty

Abruptly: Suddenly, unexpectedly

Vivid: Producing powerfull feeling or strong, clear images in the mind.
	"memories of that evening were still vivid."

Despite: neverthless, irregardless
	Outrage, Injury : "the despite done by him to the holy Kuran"
	Contempt;disdain: "the theater only earn my despite"
	without being affected by, in spite of: "he remains a great leader despite age and infirmity"	

Cumbersome: difficult, impracticable, 
	"Now, tax saving is set to become a less cumbersome process"
	
Paradigm: model, example. sample. MISAL
	"There is new paradigm for public art in country"

latencies: delay,
	"Event based software and hardware system typically have some latencies"
	
Anology: Samanta

Harmony: SAMANJASYA, agreement or concord.
	"Man and machine in perfect harmony"

contiguous: Adjacent
	"Sharing a common border;touching"
	"The 48 contiguous state"
	
consecutive: Continuously ; following Continuously;
	"five consecutive month of serious decline"
	
discrete: Seperate.
	"The constructional elements are presented discretely ."
	
evasion : TALANA, BAHANA. forfend, procrstinate. The action of evading something.
	"the aroid evasion of almost all questions"

vis-a-vis : face to face, ke ru-ba-ru-ba-ru, aamne samne

Modus Operandi: methodology. A particular way or method of doing something.. Kaam karne ka dhang.

Camouflaged: Gopaniya,keep hidden, Hide. hide or disguise the presence of person,animal or object
	"the war area had to be camouflaged with mud"
	
fraudently : Dhokese

Sleuths: Adhikari, spy, detective, carry out a search or investigation in the manner of detective.

dilignetly : Parishrampurvak. Team has work diligently.	

plowing: cultivating farm

erudite : scientific, scholor, scientist

poring: scritinize,stare, gape, see into

Condemned : Critisize, expressed complete disapproval of, typically in public. NINDIT

descretion : vivek

stint :  Karyakal

Solicit: Mangna(requested)	, He called meeting to solicit their views.

Slated: schedule plan, Critisize severly. his work was slated by the critics

belligerency: yuddha me rat hone ka dasha, hostilities

innumerable: too many to be counted , innumerable flags of all colors

astonished: greatly surprised or impressed; amazed. surprise or impress (someone) greatly. "you never fail to astonish me"

stirred: move a spoon or other implement around in (a liquid or other substance) in order to mix it thoroughly.

aristocrat: an aristocrat by birth, noble MAHAN

fervor: JOSH, enthusiasm

Urge: agrah karna

Rapidly : expeditiously, soon, 

tempted: Lubhana, seduce, attract

thoroughly:fully, utterly,absolutely

enormously: extremly, vastly,

beehive : Madhumakhi ka Chatta

weary: tired

notorious: Kukhyat, notorious goon

sinister: terrible , sinister gang leader

benefactor: Karna, a person who gives money or other help to a person or cause.

stoutly: well made

futile: void, insignificant, pointless, Vyarth ,"incapable of producing any useful result; pointless."

resentment: bitter indignation at having been treated unfairly.

indignation: anger or annoyance provoked by what is perceived as unfair treatment.

dread:great fear or apprehension.

engender: originate, PAIDA KARNA "cause or give rise to (a feeling, situation, or condition).
the issue engendered continuing controversy"

robust : strong and healthy; vigorous, robust, Muscular, substantial, durable, has broad shoulders
SOAP API is a robust and powerful web service

rigorously tested: कठोरता से परीक्षण किया गया, strictly, rigidly, daurly, rigorously

rogue: evil, rogue, nasty, malevolent, felonious, depraved, rogue, rascal, scoundrel, roguery, jack, swindler, a dishonest or unprincipled man.दुष्ट




















	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
